[Music]
you know if you're on an overnight
flight you might have been looking
forward to a gorgeous clear view of the
stars that's the whole reason you booked
that window seat right but when night
falls you look out of your window and
hey no stars they're obviously still
there so what's going on here well there
are a few reasons and I've got them
number one
the lighting in your cabin obviously the
yellowish whitish light in your cabin
isn't natural light and there are rows
and rows of these lights from the front
to the back of the plane plus other
passengers may be watching an in-flight
movie in other words it's brighter
inside the plane than it is outside
no matter how dim the lights might get
as they're turned down around bedtime
there are enough of them to make it
difficult to see the stars which keep in
mind are still quite a few miles away
number two light pollution similarly
when you're flying over a huge city like
New York London or Tokyo the stars still
have to compete with all those
artificial lights from the cities this
concept is called light pollution it may
seem crazy to think that man-made lights
will block out the light of millions of
stars but the stars are much further
away than those glowing city lights
below 3 sky glow a lot of light
pollution like the kind you get flying
over a big city
can cause sky glow even if you aren't
flying directly over it
you can still see a big city to the left
or right of you from a plane of course
even a big city will seem small from a
plane but there can be a huge glowing
atmosphere around and above the city
from all the lights
that's what sky glow is and it's bright
enough to block out even the light of
the stars for the moon and it's light
even if it's a clear night and you're
above the clouds the moon may be shining
so brightly that it's light will block
out the Stars
the moon still blocks the light of some
stars when you're stargazing from Earth
even if you can't see the stars from
your plane take the opportunity to enjoy
a beautiful unobstructed view
our Moon v proximity to the Stars it
might feel like you're much closer to
the stars while up in your airplane but
in terms of miles and light-years you
aren't really that much closer after our
Moon and the Sun the star that's next
closest to the earth is called Proxima
Centauri and it's 4.2 4 light-years away
one light-year is 6 trillion miles
when thinking in terms of numbers that
big if your plane is only somewhere
around 35,000 feet off the ground
you're not that much closer to the stars
than you are from earth anymore hmm
disappointing I know six atmospheric
turbulence
simply put atmospheric turbulence is
irregular air currents that are mixed
around by the wind besides making your
flight bumpy this turbulence also stirs
the air which can move gases smoke and
vapours around the sky this keeps these
substances from settling in one air
pocket and keeps the atmosphere healthy
but my point is that turbulence may
bring in clouds even on a clear night
which will block your view of the Stars
pay attention to see if it's windy if so
this may cause turbulence and bring the
clouds rolling in yeah stick your head
out of the airplane and see if it's
windy never mind
7 your retinas the retina is the part of
your eye that processes light if you
have any pre-existing conditions such as
diabetes or have had any head trauma
your retinas may not work properly and
you may not be able to see the stars
even healthy retinas need normal oxygen
levels in the blood to work properly
although the cabin will maintain pretty
normal oxygen levels at high altitude
any of these pre-existing conditions or
less than perfect retinas may affect
your ability to see the stars from your
plane number 8 we don't have night
vision well at least not right away
there are other parts of your eyes
besides your retinas that help you see
in the dark and your brain has to do
some work - it takes us 10 to 20 minutes
for our eyes to acclimate
the dark so if you're trying to see the
stars from your plane and can't don't
give up too quickly
if you've eliminated the light sources
inside the cabin
whether by using your blanket or getting
the cabin lights turned off
keep stargazing for at least 20 minutes
you have to give your eyes time to
adjust 9 your windows the windows of an
airplane are oddly shaped and on the
small side only reaching from about
shoulder to elbow not ideal for
stargazing the cramped nature of the
seats makes it difficult to look out
your window from multiple angles too you
have to do a lot of neck twisting owl
airplane windows also have three layers
of protection against the outside so you
stay safe any one of these panes may be
scratched up or cloudy due to age the
shape and condition of your window may
affect the quality of your view of the
skies it might be hard to get these
near-perfect conditions so it has to be
a clear night the moon needs to be dim
your cabin must be dark you can't be
flying over any big cities that may
cause light pollution or sky glow etc
etc it could be difficult to get all of
these elements to line up at the same
time most of these conditions are out of
your control like all the natural
elements outside but if the right
circumstances fall into place your
chance to stargaze above the clouds just
may come along so what can you do to
increase your chances of seeing the
stars from your flight it might be
difficult to see the stars but it isn't
impossible first don't do this during
the day just kidding okay assuming that
it's a clear night one option is to
cover your head and sides of your face
with your travel blanket the goal here
is to block out all the unnatural light
from inside the cabin then lean toward
the window until you can see out but the
sides of the window are bordered by your
blanket - you might get some curious
glances but you may be able to do a
little stargazing from your plane next
don't try to do this from the middle or
I'll see the folks won't take it too
kindly if you flop over
onto them to gaze out the window you
could also try asking the flight
attendants if they could shut off the
cabin lights for a minute or two that
would help make it almost as dark inside
the cabin as it is outside without some
elimination of the lighting inside the
cabin you won't be able to see the stars
at all but if you're flying over an area
with no sky glow or light pollution and
the lights are off in the cabin you
should be able to see some stars once
your eyes adjust hey it can't hurt to
ask some food for thought
in the early days of air travel like in
the 30s and 40s pilots didn't have all
the technology on the flight deck that
we have today so how did they
successfully navigate well they used the
Stars or celestial navigation similar to
how sailors did it's much easier to see
the stars from the larger and cleaner
window in the cockpit in the old days
the North Star and the constellations
were tools of the trade seeing the stars
from your plane is not only possible but
it used to be absolutely necessary
what's that you ask where are the best
places to stargaze from an airplane
well obviously the view from the
bathroom isn't good so like I said try a
window now if you're doing some
nighttime flying over Idaho Utah
Colorado or British Columbia you just
might be in for the sight of a lifetime
these parks of the US are homes too many
protected national parks and nature
reserves so there's no danger of light
pollution or sky glow skies tend to be
pretty clear and cloudless in these
places too if you're flying over British
Columbia during the winter time you
might be lucky enough to catch a glimpse
of the Northern Lights kind of depends
on which side of the plane you're on a
if you learn something new today then
give this video a like and share it with
a friend and here are some other videos
I think you'll enjoy just click to the
left or right and remember to stay on
the bright side of life
[Music]